Captioning sponsored by
MacNEIL/LEHRER PRODUCTIONS
>> Ifill: THE OPENING CEREMONIES
MAY STILL BE A DAY AWAY, BUT FOR
SOME, THE COMPETITION'S ALREADY
BEGUN.
WE LOOK AT THE EMERGING STARS,
AND SOME AMERICAN FAVORITES FOR
GOLD AT THE SOCHI OLYMPICS.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD, A LOOK AT THE LIVES
OF ADJUNCT PROFESSORS.
THEY CARRY MUCH OF THE LOAD OF
TEACHING OUR COURY'SNT COLLEGE
STUDENTS, YET MANY STRUGGLE TO
GET BY.
>> WE ARE NOT GIVEN ANY KIND OF
BENEFITS.
NO MEDICAL, NO DENTAL, NO
VISION, NO RETIREMENT, NO FAMILY
LEAVE, NO SICK LEAVE, NOTHING.
>> Ifill: PLUS, JAY LENO'S
SECOND FAREWELL TO "THE TONIGHT
SHOW".
THIS TIME, HE SAYS, FOR GOOD.
BUT WHAT DOES HIS DEPARTURE MEAN
FOR THE BUSINESS OF LATE NIGHT
T.V.?
THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THE LATEST ATTEMPT
TO RESTORE BENEFITS FOR THE
LONG-TERM UNEMPLOYED HAS STALLED
IN THE SENATE AGAIN.
DEMOCRATS FELL ONE VOTE SHORT OF
THE 60 NEEDED TO LIMIT DEBATE.
REPUBLICANS TODAY BLOCKED THE
BILL FOR THE SECOND TIME THIS
YEAR.
AN ESTIMATED 1.7 MILLION
AMERICANS HAVE BEEN AFFECTED
SINCE THE BENEFITS BEGAN
EXPIRING IN LATE DECEMBER.
PROSPECTS FOR PASSING
IMMIGRATION LEGISLATION APPEARED
TO DIM TODAY.
HOUSE SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER
ARGUED THE ROOT OF THE PROBLEM
IS THAT CONGRESS AND THE COUNTRY
DOUBT PRESIDENT OBAMA WOULD
FULLY IMPLEMENT A NEW LAW, EVEN
IF ONE DID PASS.
>> THE PRESIDENT SEEMS TO CHANGE
THE HEALTH CARE LAW ON A WHIM
WHEREVER HE LIKES.
NOW HE'S RUNNING AROUND THE
COUNTRY TELLING EVERYONE THAT
HE'S GOING TO KEEP ACTING ON HIS
OWN.
LISTEN, THERE'S WIDESPREAD DOUBT
ABOUT WHETHER THIS
ADMINISTRATION CAN BE TRUSTED TO
ENFORCE OUR LAWS AND IT'S GOING
TO BE DIFFICULT TO MOVE ANY
IMMIGRATION LEGISLATION UNTIL
THAT CHANGES.
>> Woodruff: AT THE WHITE HOUSE,
SPOKESMAN JAY CARNEY DISMISSED
BOEHNER'S CRITICISM.
HE SAID THE PRESIDENT'S
TRUSTWORTHINESS IS NOT IN
QUESTION.
>> THE PRESIDENT'S RECORD ON
THIS ISSUE BEARS THAT OUT.
IS MORE OVER, WHEN IT COMES TO
EXECUTIVE ACTIONS VERSUS
LEGISLATION, WE'VE BEEN SAYING
FROM THE BEGIN THAT THIS IS A
QUESTION OF DOING BOTH AND
IMMIGRATION REFORM IS SOMETHING
THAT NEEDS TO BE DONE THROUGH
THE LEGISLATURE, THROUGH THE
CONGRS.ES
>> Woodruff: CARNEY SAID THE
REAL PROBLEM ON IMMIGRATION LIES
IN THE DIVISIONS WITHIN
REPUBLICAN RANKS.
WALL STREET HAD ITS BEST DAY OF
THE YEAR.
STOCKS MADE UP NEARLY ALL OF
LOSSES FROM EARLIER THIS WEEK.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 188 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,628.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 45 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,057.
THE AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION
TODAY ISSUED ITS FIRST GUIDELINE
FOR PREVENTING STROKES IN WOMEN.
AMONG OTHER THINGS, IT'S NOW
RECOMMENDED THAT WOMEN CHECK FOR
HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE BEFORE
STARTING ON ORAL CONTRACEPTIVES
AND THOSE WHO HAVE HIGH BLOOD
PRESSURE AND BECOME PREGNANT
SHOULD CONSIDER LOW-DOSE ASPIRIN
AFTER THE FIRST TRIMESTER.
STROKE IS THE THIRD-LEADING
CAUSE OF DEATH AMONG WOMEN.
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE
IN THE MID-ATLANTIC SPENT A
SECOND DAY IN THE DARK AFTER A
WINTER STORM WALLOPED THE
REGION-- MOST WERE IN
PENNSYLVANIA.
THERE, UTILITY CREWS SCRAMBLED
TO REPAIR POWER LINES THAT
SNAPPED AFTER ICE-COATED TREES
AND LIMBS FELL ON THEM.
GOVERNOR TOM CORBETT DECLARED A
STATE OF EMERGENCY AND ASKED FOR
PATIENCE WHILE CREWS DO THEIR
WORK.
>> ANYTIME YOU'RE WORKING WITH
HIGH VOLTAGE ELECTRICITY, THESE
MEN AND WOMEN HAVE TO BE
CAUTIOUS.
AND I WOULD HOPE THAT THE PEOPLE
WHO ARE WITHOUT ELECTRICITY WILL
HAVE SOME UNDERSTANDING AND SOME
PATIENCE TO UNDERSTAND THAT
THESE INDIVIDUALS ARE REALLY
RISKING THEIR LIVES WHEN THEY
GET UP THERE AND THEY'RE WORKING
AMONG THOSE TREES-- PARTICULARLY
WAND IT IS BITTER COLD FOR THEM.
>> Woodruff: THE GOVERNOR SAID
THE SITUATION IS WORSE THAN
AFTER SUPER STORM SANDY BECAUSE
THEN AT LEAST THE WEATHER WAS
WARMER.
THE OLYMPIC COMPETITION GOT
UNDERWAY TODAY IN SOCHI, RUSSIA
A DAY BEFORE THE OFFICIAL
OPENING CEREMONY.
SLOPE-STYLE SNOWBOARDING MADE
ITS OLYMPIC DEBUT WITH
QUALIFYING RUNS.
TEAM FIGURE SKATING EVENTS ALSO
BEGAN, ALONG WITH FREESTYLE
SKIING.
WE'LL TAKE A LOOK AT THE WINTER
GAMES RIGHT AFTER THIS NEWS
SUMMARY.
THE U.N. SECURITY COUNCIL
PRESSED SYRIA TODAY TO SPEED UP
SHIPPING ITS WORST CHEMICAL
WEAPONS AGENTS OUT OF THE
COUNTRY.
DAMASCUS MISSED ITS LATEST
DEADLINE YESTERDAY, BLAMING
SECURITY CONCERNS AND LACK OF
NEEDED EQUIPMENT.
THE U.S. HAS ACCUSED THE ASSAD
REGIME OF FOOT DRAGGING.
THE SECURITY COUNCIL CALLED FOR
EXPEDITED ACTION BY SYRIA TO
MEET ITS OBLIGATION UNDER A U.N.
AGREEMENT.
AT THE SAME TIME, THE U.N.
HAILED SYRIA'S ANNOUNCEMENT OF A
DEAL TO LET CIVILIANS LEAVE THE
CITY OF HOMS AND LET
HUMANITARIAN CONVOYS ENTER.
GOVERNMENT FORCES HAVE BESIEGED
THE CITY FOR MORE THAN A YEAR.
OPPOSITION ACTIVISTS SAY 2,500
PEOPLE ARE TRAPPED THERE.
IN NEW YORK, A U.N. SPOKESMAN
SAID RELIEF WORKERS ARE READY TO
HELP AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.
>> Pelley: WE WELCOME THE REPORT
THAT THE PARTIES HAVE AGREED A
HUMANITARIAN PAUSE TO ALOUD
CIVILIANS OUT OF AND AID INTO
HOLD MUBARAK CITY.
PARTNERS HAVE PREPOSITIONED FOOD
ON THE OUTSKIRTS OF HOSNI
MUBARAK READY FOR IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY AS SOON AS THE GREEN
LIGHT WAS GIVEN FOR SAFE
PASSAGE.
>> Woodruff: THE REGIME SAID THE
AGREEMENT APPLIES TO INNOCENT
CIVILIANS, BUT IT GAVE NO
DEFINITION OF WHO MIGHT QUALIFY
AS INNOCENT.
WE'LL TURN TO THE PLIGHT OF
SYRIAN CHILDREN CAUGHT IN THE
CONFLICT LATER IN THE PROGRAM.
THERE'S WORD THAT THOUSANDS OF
WOMEN HAVE BEEN DETAINED
ILLEGALLY IN IRAQ.
HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH REPORTED
TODAY THAT GOVERNMENT FORCES
SEIZE WOMEN AS PART OF TERRORIST
SWEEPS TARGETING MALE RELATIVES.
IT SAID THE CAPTIVES ARE
SUBJECTED TO TORTURE, SEXUAL
ABUSE AND OTHER VIOLENCE.
THE RIGHTS GROUP WARNED:
IN PAKISTAN, PEACE TALKS BEGAN
BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND
TALIBAN INSURGENTS.
STATE-RUN T.V. SHOWED
NEGOTIATORS AT A JOINT NEWS
CONFERENCE IN ISLAMABAD.
THE HEAD OF THE GOVERNMENT
DELEGATION SAID THEY'VE BEGUN A
JOURNEY FOR PEACE.
THE MILITANTS HAVE BEEN TRYING
TO OVERTURN PAKISTAN'S ELECTED
GOVERNMENT AND ESTABLISH STRICT
ISLAMIC RULES.
THE U.S. SENATE OVERWHELMINGLY
CONFIRMED ONE OF ITS OWN TODAY,-
MAX BAUCUS, TO BE THE AMERICAN
AMBASSADOR IN CHINA.
THE MONTANA DEMOCRAT IS 72 YEARS
OLD, AND HAS BEEN IN THE SENATE
SINCE 1978.
HE CURRENTLY CHAIRS THE FINANCE
COMMITTEE.
BAUCUS WILL SUCCEED GARY LOCKE,
THE FIRST CHINESE-AMERICAN TO
SERVE AS AMBASSADOR IN BEIJING.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR,
COMPETITION KICKS OFF AT THE
SOCHI OLYMPICS, THE SYRIAN CIVIL
WAR'S TOLL ON CHILDREN, ADJUNCT
PROFESSORS STRUGGLING TO GET BY,
JAY LENO SAYS GOODBYE TO "THE
TONIT SHGHOW," CAMPAIGN DOLLARS
SHAPING THE BATTLE FOR THE
SENATE, PLUS, THE HISTORY AND
GRANDEUR OF ONE OF THE WORLD'S
GREAT STRUCTURES.
>> Ifill: THE BUILDUP TO THE
START OF THE WINTER OLYMPICS IN
SOCHI, RUSSIA HAS BEEN FRAUGHT
WITH TENSION, SOME FEAR AND NO
SMALL AMOUNT OF DEBATE.
BUT RUSSIAN ORGANIZERS AS WELL
AS THE ATHLETES COMPETING HAVE A
LOT RIDING ON THE OUTCOME.
THE PAGEANTRY NEARED ITS PEAK IN
SOCHI TODAY, AS U.N. SECRETARY
GENERAL BAN KI MOON AND OTHER
LEADERS CARRIED THE OLYMPIC
TORCH ON A FINAL TOUR.
AFTER WEEKS OF BEING
OVERSHADOWED BY REPORTS ON
RUSSIA'S HUMAN RIGHTS RECORD,
UNFINISHED HOTELS, AND SECURITY
WORRIES, THE WINTER GAMES ARE
FINALLY SET TO BEGIN.
THE LATEST: WARNINGS FROM U.S.
OFFICIALS THAT TERRORISTS COULD
TRY TO SMUGGLE EXPLOSIVES IN
TOOTHPASTE TUBES ON FLIGHTS
BOUND FOR RUSSIA.
THE RUSSIAN DEPUTY PRIME
MINISTER OFFERED NO DETAILS ON
THAT, TODAY EXCEPT TO SAY THIS:
>> ( translated ): WE CAN
GUARANTEE SECURITY IN THE SAME
WAY AS ANY OTHER GOVERNMENT
NOWADAYS DOES, WHEN CONDUCTING
ANY PUBLIC EVENT IN A PLACE
WHERE A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE.
WE CAN GIVE SUCH A GUARANTEE AS
MUCH AS WE CAN.
>> Ifill: BUT THE SPOTLIGHT HAS
ALREADY BEGUN SHIFTING TO THE
COMPETITION AT HAND, WITH
PRELIMINARIES TODAY IN SKATING,
SKIING AND A NEW SNOWBOARDING
EVENT: SLOPESTYLE.
AMERICAN STAR SHAUN WHITE PULLED
OUT OF THAT COMPETITION
YESTERDAY, SAYING HE WAS
CONCERNED ABOUT THE COURSE'S
SAFETY.
INSTEAD, HE'LL FOCUS ON WINNING
A THIRD STRAIGHT GOLD MEDAL IN
THE HALF-PIPE.
>> FOR ME, I HAVE A LIST OF
TRICKS THAT I WOULD LIKE TO DO.
USUALLY THAT LIST NAOWS RRDOWN
ONCE YOU HAVE SEEN THE
COMPETITION, ONCE YOU HAVE SEEN
THE PIPE, WHAT THE CONDITIONS
ARE LIKE AND THERE A LOT OF
VARIABLES, BUT I AM HOPING TO
TAKE SOME OF THAT TRAINING THAT
I HAVE HAD AND PUT IT TO GOOD
USE.
>> Ifill: WHITE IS ONE OF MANY
HIGH-PROFILE OLYMPIC VETERANS
COMPETING FOR TEAM U.S.A IN
SOCHI.
>> YOU KNOW, I THINK I AM AT A
MUCH BETTER SPOT THIS YEAR THAN
I WAS IN 2010.
>> Ifill: 36-YEAR-OLD DOWNHILL
SKIER BODE MILLER RETURNS FOR
HIS FIFTH OLYMPICS, HOPING TO
ADD TO HIS FIVE-MEDAL
COLLECTION.
AND ICE DANCERS CHARLIE WHITE
AND MERYL DAVIS SEEK TO IMPROVE
ON THEIR FINISH IN VANCOUVER,
FOUR YEARS AGO.
>> THE NAME OF THE GAME FOR US
IS JUST TO GO OUT THERE AND DO
WHAT WE DO IN PRACTICE AND IF WE
CAN DO THAT WE'LL BE REALLY
PROUD.
YOU KNOW, WE GOT THE SILVER IN
THE 2010 GAMES AND THIS TIME
WE'RE DEFINITELY LOOKING TO COME
AWAY WITH THE GOLD MEDAL.
>> Ifill: THERE ARE NEW FACES,
IN THESE OLYMPICS TOO.
INCLUDING 22-YEAR-OLD FIGURE
SKATER ASHLEY WAGNER.
TWO-TIME SUMMER OLYMPIAN AND
HURDLER LOLO JONES MAKES HER
FIRST WINTER GAMES APPEARANCE,
NOW AS A MEMBER OF THE U.S.
BOBSLED TEAM.
AND THE U.S. HOCKEY TEAM ONCE
AGAIN HARBORS HOPES OF WINNING
GOLD.
THE OPENING CEREMONIES ARE
TOMORROW NIGHT.
A LATE DEVELOPMENT TODAY ON THE
SECURITY ISSUE.
DELTA AIRLINES SAYS THE
TRANSPORTATION SECURITY
ADMINISTRATION HAS NOW BANNED
ALL LIQUIDS FROM CARRY ON
LUGGAGE ON FLIGHTS BOUND FOR
RUSSIA.
THIS AFTERNOON I SPOKE WITH
STEVE WILSON OF THE ASSOCIATED
PRESS ABOUT WHAT'S HAPPENING ON
THE GROUND IN SOCHI.
HE'S COVERING HIS 14th OLYMPICS.
STEVE WILSON, THANKS SO MUCH FOR
JOINING US.
IT SEEMS THERE'S A BIG QUESTION
ABOUT READINESS FOR THE GAMES
AND FOR OVERALL SECURITY.
LET'S START WITH THE SECURITY
PIECE.
WHAT ARE YOU HEARING ABOUT HOW
SECURE PEOPLE FEEL ON THE GROUND
IN SOCHI?
>> WELL, I THINK PEOPLE HAVE
HEARD ALL ABOUT THE SECURITY
MEASURE WHICH IS SEEM TO BE THE
MOST STRINGENT SECURITY MEASURES
WE'VE EVER HAD PAT ANY OLYMPIC
GAMES.
WE'VE GOT MAYBE
40,000 RUSSIAN SECURITY FORCES
IN PLACE.
THERE'S WARSHIPS IN THE BLACK
SEA.
THERE'S U.S. WARSHIPS ALSO
NEARBY SO THERE'S A SENSE --
THERE WAS A BIT OF A SENSE OF
FOREBODING COMING TO THESE
GAMES.
NOW THAT IT'S ABOUT TO START
PEOPLE ARE ON THE GROUND,
THEY'RE AT WORK, THEY'RE READY
FOR THE GAMES TO START TOMORROW.
STILL ON EDGE BUT HOPING FOR THE
BEST.
>> Ifill: LET'S TALK ABOUT THE
GAMES PARTICULARLY.
I'M CURIOUS ABOUT HOW THE VENUES
LOOK AND HOW THE ATHLETES SEEM.
>> WELL, THESE GAMES ARE
PARTICULAR IN THAT EVERYTHING'S
BEEN BUILT FROM SCRATCH,
LITERALLY, IN THE PAST SEVEN
YEARS.
SO THESE VENUES ARE BRAND NEW,
THEY'RE SPARKLING.
THEY'RE GLEAMING.
I THINK THEETESEMSEEM TO
LIKE THEM.
THE COMPETITIONS HAVE STARTED A
BIT TODAY FROM QUALIFYING AND IT
LOOKED GREAT ON T.V., THE
WEATHER WAS GOOD.
SO FOR ALL THE MONEY THEY'VE
SPENT ON THE VENUES, IT SEEMS TO
BE WELL SPENT.
IT'S PERHAPS SOME OF THE THINGS
AROUND THE VENUES, OUTSIDE THE
VENUES WHICH ARE A LITTLE BIT
WORRYING IN TERMS OF
PREPARATION.
A SENSE OF LAST MINUTE
PREPARATIONSS STILL GOING ON,
HOTELS WHICH AREN'T QUITE READY,
ROOMS WHICH ARE -- HAVE THINGS
FALLING FROM THE CEILING, STRAY
DOGS HERE AND THERE, WET PAINT.
SO THERE'S A BIT OF A FEEL OF --
LET'S GET THIS TING TOGETHER AT
THE LAST MINUTE.
>> Ifill: SO LET'S MOVE ON TO
THE GAMES.
WHO ARE YOU WATCHING FOR?
THERE ARE SOME FAMILIAR NAMES
AND UNFAMILIAR NAMES.
I'D LIKE TO START WITH SHAUN
WHITE.
>> YEAH, SHAUN WHITE MAY BE THE
BIGGEST NAME OF ALL IN TERMS OF
ROCK STAR, CELEBRITY STATUS
HERE.
IT WAS DISAPPOINTMENT, OF
COURSE, THAT HE HAD TO PULL OUT
OF ONE OF THE EVENTS THE SLOPE
STYLE WHICH IS A NEW EVENT HE
WAS HOPING TO MEDAL IN.
HE DECIDED TO WITHDRAW FROM THAT
AND IS CONCENTRATING ON HIS
PREFERRED EVENT, THE HALFPIPE,
WHICH HE'S MOST FAMOUS FOR.
HE'S WON TWO GOLD MEDALS ALREADY
IN THAT.
SO HE'LL BE GOING FOR A THIRD
GOLD MEDAL.
SO ALL EYES ARE DEFINITELY ON
SHAUN WHITE UP THERE.
>> Ifill: IN HOCKEY, ANOTHER
GAME WE WATCH CLOSELY DURING THE
OLYMPICS.
WHAT ARE DO THE U.S.'S CHANCES
LOOK LIKE?
>> HOCKEY WILL BE ONE OF THE
FEATURED SPORTS HERE FOR SURE,
ONE REASON BEING THAT IT'S
ALMOST A NATIONAL SPORT HERE IN
RUSSIA AND IF THERE'S ONE
COMPETITION, ONE GOLD MEDAL THAT
THE HOST COUNTRY WANTS THE MOST
IT'S IN HOCKEY.
AND THEY'VE HAD SOME
DISAPPOINTMENTS IN THE SPORT IN
VANCOUVER FOUR YEARS AGO, THEY
FAILED TO EVEN WIN A MEDAL.
NOW THAT THEY'RE PLAYING AT HOME
THEY HAVE STAR PLAYERS, ALEX
OVECHKIN FROM THE WASHINGTON
CAPITALS WILL BE THEIR TOP
PLAYER.
SO LOOK FOR RUSSIA TO MAKE A BIG
MOVE.
THEN AGAIN, OF COURSE, YOU'LL
ALWAYS HAVE THE U.S., YOU'LL
HAVE CANADA.
IT SHOULD BE BETWEEN THOSE THREE
TEAMS.
>> Ifill: AND SOME OF THE N.H.L.
PLAYERS, LIKE YOU MENTIONED,
ALEX OVECHKIN, ARE PLAYING FOR
OTHER COUNTRIES.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
N.H.L. SHUTS DOWN THEIR SEASON
IN ORDER FOR THE PLAYERS TO COME
TO THE OLYMPICS AND THERE'S SO
MANY INTERNATIONAL PLAYERS IN
THE N.H.L. FROM SWEDEN, FINLAND,
RUSSIA, U.S., CANADA, IT'S ONE
OF THE MOST INTERNATIONAL EVENTS
THERE IS AND THEY ARE
PROFESSIONALS AND HOUSEHOLD
NAMES IN THEIR COUNTRIES.
>> Ifill: AS WE'RE WATCHING
SKIING, WHO ARE YOU LOOKING AT?
WE KNOW SOME OF THE NAMES LIKE
BODE MILLER.
>> THE BIGGEST NAME OF ALL IS
LINDSAY VAUGHN.
SHE'S NOT HERE, SHE HAD TO
WITHDRAWN.
SHE DIDN'T RECOVER FROM HER KNEE
SURGERY.
THAT WAS A BIG BLOW TO THE U.S.
TEAM AND ALSO PROBABLY THE T.V.
NETWORKS WHO ARE BROADCASTING
HERE.
BUT THERE'S STILL SOME SKIERS TO
WATCH FROM THE AMERICAN SIDE.
YOU'VE GOT BODE MILLER GOING IN
THE DOWNHILL.
OF COURSE HE'S WON FIVE OLYMPIC
MEDALS ALREADY IN HIS CAREER.
HE'S BACK HERE AFTER MISSING ALL
OF LAST SEASON AFTER A KNEE
SURGERY AND HE'S SHOWING STRONG
SIGNS THAT HE'S BACK SO YOU'VE
GOT GIVE HIM A NOT?
THE MEN'S DOWNHILL COMING UP.
OTHERWISE ON THE WOMEN'S SIDE,
YOU'VE GOT AN 18-YEAR-OLD
SUPERSTAR, MIKAILA SHIFRIN WHO'S
ALREADY THE BEST IN THE WORLD IN
HER EVENTS WHICH THE SLALOM SO
LOOK FOR A GOLD MEDAL FOR HER IN
THE -- ON THE U.S. SIDE.
>> Ifill: THERE ARE NEW EVENTS
IN THIS OLYMPICS THAT WE HAVEN'T
SEEN BEFORE.
>> YEAH.
IN FACT, THERE'S 12 NEW MEDAL
EVENT THIS IS TIME.
98 MEDAL EVENTS IN TOTAL AND
PERHAPS THE EVENT WHICH MIGHT
GET THE MOST ATTENTION IS
WOMEN'S SKI JUMPING BECAUSE
WE'VE NEVER HAD WOMEN'S SKI
JUMPING IN THE OLYMPICS BEFORE.
THEY HAD A LODGE BATTLE TO GET
IN.
THEY WERE REFUSED ENTRY FOUR
YEARS AGO IN VANCOUVER.
THEY WENT TO COURT TO GET IN THE
GAMES AND FAIL BUD THEY'VE BEEN
ADMITTED TO THE OLYMPICS AND
THAT WILL BE ONE OF THE PREMIER
EVENTS AND THE U.S. HAS A STAR
AT FLEET THAT, SARA HENRICKSON,
SHE'S A WORLD CHAMPION.
SHE'S COMING OFF KNEE SURGERY
SHE HAD IN THE LAST FEW MONTHS
IN KNEE LIGAMENTS SO THERE'S
QUESTION MARKS ABOUT WHETHER
SHE'S IN GOOD SHAPE OR NOT AND
THERE'S 17-YEAR-OLD SKI JUMPER
FROM JAPAN WHO WAS A HOUSEHOLD
NAME BACK IN JAPAN AND IT SHOULD
BE A GOOD BATTLE.
OTHER NEW SPORTS TO WATCH: WE'VE
GOT SLOPE STYLE, BOTH IN
SNOWBOARDING AND IN FREE STYLE
SKIING.
IT'S A FANTASTIC EVENT TO WATCH,
HUGE JUMPS, TRICKS, RAILS, IT
IS'S AN X GAMES EVENT, IT'S
MEANT TO DRAW IN NEWER, YOUNGER
VIEWERS.
AND I THINK WE'LL SEE A LOT OF
EXCITEMENT IN THE THAT.
>> Ifill: I KNOW WE CAN'T WAIT
FOR THE OLYMPIC GAMES TO BEGIN.
STEVE WILSON, EUROPEAN SPORTS
EDITOR FOR THE A.P. IN SOCHI,
THANKS A LOT.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Woodruff: THIS WEEK, THE
UNITED NATIONS RELEASED A REPORT
ON CHILDREN AND THE SYRIA
CONFLICT.
IT FOUND THAT THE SYRIAN
GOVERNMENT RESPONSIBLE FOR
THOUSANDS OF DEATHS, AND CHARGED
IT PUT CHILDREN AS YOUNG AS 11
IN PRISONS WHERE THEY SUFFERED,
QUOTE "BEATINGS WITH METAL
CABLES, SEXUAL VIOLENCE AND MOCK
EXECUTIONS."
IT ALSO ACCUSES ARMED OPPOSITION
GROUPS OF SUMMARY EXECUTIONS OF
CHILDREN.
JOINING ME NOW IS ONE OF THE
AUTHORS OF THE REPORT, LEILA
ZERROUGUI, THE U.N. SPECIAL
REPRESENTATIVE OF THE SECRETARY-
GENERAL FOR CHILDREN AND ARMED
CONFLICT.
AND WE THANK YOU FOR SPEAKING
WITH US.
LEILA ZERROUGUI, YOU DESCRIBE IN
THIS REPORT UNSPEAKABLE VIOLENCE
AGAINST THESE CHILDREN.
WHAT WERE SOME OF THE MAIN
FINDINGS?
>> WE WERE GATHERING INFORMATION
AND DOCUMENTING ABUSES COMMITTED
AGAINST CHILDREN SINCE THE
BEGINNING OF THIS WAR AND WE, AS
YOU KNOW TODAY, ARE TALKING
ABOUT
10,000 AT LEAST OF CHILDREN WHO
HAVE BEEN KILLED, THOUSANDS HAVE
BEEN INJURED, MORE THAN A
MILLION ARE EITHER DISPLACED OR
FLED IN NEIGHBORING COUNTRIES.
70% OF THE CHILDREN ARE NOT
ANYMORE GOING TO SCHOOL AND IT'S
THE THIRD YEAR.
THEIR SCHOOLS HAVE BEEN LOOTED,
HAVE BEEN DESTROYED, USED
MILITARILY.
THEY DON'T HAVE ACCESS TOE THE
BASIC HEALTH CARE.
THEY DON'T HAVE ACCESS TO EVEN
FOOD.
THEY SAW THEIR FAMILY KILLED.
THEY ARE FORCED TO TAKE PART IN
THE THIS CONFLICT AND TO BE
RECRUITED AND USED IN MILITARY
AND OTHER SUPPORT FUNCTION AND
FROM THE OTHER SIDE THEY ARE
ARRESTED, DETAINED BECAUSE OF
THEIR PERCEIVED ASSOCIATION WITH
ARMED GROUPS.
SO THIS IS WHAT WE ARE SAYING
AND THIS IS WHAT IT IS HAPPENING
THIS IS WHAT I SAW MYSELF IN MY
TWO VISITS IN SYRIA AND THIS IS
JUST NOT ONLY UNSPEAKABLE, IT IS
UNACCEPTABLE.
>> Woodruff: AND WHAT DID YOU
FIND WERE THE DIFFERENCES
BETWEEN WHAT THE GOVERNMENT--
THE SYRIAN GOVERNMENT-- HAS DONE
IN THE WAY IT'S TREATED CHILDREN
AND THE OPPOSITION GROUPS?
>> I THINK AT THE BEGINNING, AS
WE MENTIONED IN THE REPORT, THE
GOVERNMENT WAS CONFRONTED TO
SELF-DEFENSE MILITIA AND MORE
CIVILIAN OPPOSITION, BUT WITH
THE ACCESS FROM THE OPPOSITION
TO HEAVY WEAPONRY.
SO IT'S BECOME MORE AND MORE A
WAR BETWEEN TWO PARTIES AND
MAKING THIS HAPPENING IN THE
MIDDLE OF CITIES, IN AREA WHERE
POPULATED AREAS AND THE
CONSEQUENCES FOR CHILDREN IS
JUST UNBEARABLE BECAUSE THE
NUMBER OF KILLED AND INJURED IS
VERY HIGH IN THIS BRUTAL WAR.
BUT THE WE CAN -- WHAT WE ARE
REPORTING IS THAT GOVERNMENTS
ARE, OF COURSE, USING AERIAL
BOMBARDMENTS IN POPULATED AREA,
A LOT OF CHILDREN HAVE BEEN
KILLED AND MAIMED AND ALSO AS WE
MENTIONED THE DETENTION OF
CHILDREN AND THE ILL TREATMENT
IN DETENTION.
BUT WE ALSO RECEIVE INFORMATION
ON OPPOSITION GROUPS BECAUSE
WITH ALL THIS FACTION NOW
OPERATING IN DIFFERENT AREAS
ALSO THEY ARE DETAINING THE
CHILDREN AND THEY ARE -- BUT
MOST IMPORTANT WHEN WE TALK
ABOUT THE OPPOSITION IS THE
RECRUITMENT AND USE OF CHILDREN
IN THIS CONFLICT.
>> Woodruff: HOW CONFIDENT ARE
YOU IN YOUR FINDINGS?
WE'RE ALREADY HEARING OF DENIALS
ESPECIALLY FROM THE SYRIAN
GOVERNMENT, THE SYRIAN REGIME.
HOW MUCH EVIDENCE WERE YOU ABLE
TO GET TO BACK THIS UP?
>> AS I SAID, WE WERE GATHERING
INFORMATION FROM THE BEGINNINGS,
WE WERE DOCUMENTING, I VISIT
TWICE SYRIA AND NEIGHBORING
COUNTRY.
WE ARE IN CONTACT WITH BOTH
SIDES, I MET WITH PEOPLE THAT
ARE -- HAVE BEEN AFFECTED BY
THIS WAR THAT ARE DIRECTLY
VICTIM CHILDREN BUT WERE, FOR
EXAMPLE, DETAINED AND RELEASED
AND THEY REPORT ON WHAT HAPPENED
TO THEM.
THEY REPORT ON WHAT OTHERS STILL
IN DETENTION.
I SPOKE WITH PARENTS THAT THEIR
CHILDREN HAVE BEEN EITHER KILLED
OR HAVE BEEN DETAINED OR
DISAPPEARED.
I ALSO SPOKE WITH CHILDREN THAT
HAVE BEEN ASSOCIATED WITH ARMED
GROUPS FIGHTING ALONG SIDE WITH
THEM.
I MET WITH THOSE WHO LEFT -- WHO
LOST ARMS OR LEGS.
SO IF WE GATHER THIS INFORMATION
AND WE ALSO GO THROUGH
TRIANGULATION OF INFORMATION
COMING THROUGH OUR PARTNERS ON
THE GROUND.
WE CONSIDER THAT WHAT WE WERE --
YOU SEE IN OUR REPORT THAT SOME
INFORMATION ARE CONFIRMED AND
VERIFIED OR THEY ARE REPORTED
AND WE ARE ASKING THE GOVERNMENT
SIDE AND OPPOSITION TO ALLOW US
TO GETTING ACCESS IF THEY CAN
TEST SOMETHING WE WOULD LIKE TO
GET THE ACCESS AND VERY PHI WITH
THEM.
>> Pelley: JUST FINALLY LET ME
ASK YOU.
IS IT YOUR HOPE THAT THE TWO
SIDES WOULD CHANGE -- THE KIND
OF VIOLENCE THAT THEY'VE BEEN
GUILTY OF OR IS THIS MORE A
MATTER OF DOCUMENTING THIS FOR
SOME SORT OF FUTURE
ACCOUNTABILITY THAT THESE TWO
SIDES WILL BE HELD AGAINST.
>> I THINK DOCUMENTATION IS
IMPORTANT BECAUSE THOSE
COMMITTING ATROCITIES ON BOTH
SIDES NEED TO BE HELD
ACCOUNTABLE.
SO IT'S IMPORTANT.
THE DOCUMENTATION IS ALSO
NECESSARY BECAUSE IT'S THE ONLY
WAY THAT YOU CAN ENGAGE WITH
PARTIES AND BRING THE EVIDENCE
TO LET THEM ACT ON THAT.
IT IS ALSO IMPORTANT BECAUSE WE
HAVE TO PUSH -- IT IS MY DUTY TO
CONTINUE TO DO WHAT I AM DOING.
I WILL NOT STOP AND I WILL NOT
GIVE UP BECAUSE IT'S MY
RESPONSIBILITY.
AND IT'S ALSO THE ONLY WAY TO
SEE -- TO PUT THE PRESSURE NOT
ONLY ON THOSE WHO ARE FIGHTING
BUT THOSE WHO CAN MAKE A
DIFFERENCE BECAUSE THEY ARE
SUPPORTING THEM.
WE HAVE TO CONTINUE TO REACH THE
ALL PARTIES.
THE ONLY WAY TO STOP THIS BRUTAL
WAR THAT IS AFFECTING CHILDREN.
>> Woodruff: WELL, IT IS A
DISTURBING REPORT AND I
APPRECIATE YOUR TALKING WITH US.
LEILA ZERROUGUI, WHO HAS, ALONG
WITH OTHERS, AUTHORED A REPORT
ON VIOLENCE AGAINST CHILDREN IN
THE SYRIAN WAR, WE THANK YOU.
>> Pelley: THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AND NEXT WEEK'S
"FRONTLINE" GETS INSIDE THE BATS
OF THE NORTHERN FIGHT WHERE AL
QAEDA-LINKED FACTIONS JOIN THE
FIGHT.
THAT'S TUESDAY ON YOUR PBS
STATION.
>> Ifill: NOW, A LOOK AT A
GROWING TREND AT COLLEGES AND
UNIVERSITIES ACROSS THE COUNTRY:
>> Woodruff: NOW UNIVERSITIES
ARE INCREASINGLY RELYING ON PART
TIME ADD JUNK PROFESSORS.
NEWSHOUR ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT
PAUL SOLOMON HAS THE STORY.
IT'S PAR OFT HIS ONGOING
REPORTING "MAKING SENSE OF
FINANCIAL NEWS."
>> Reporter: LIFE IN ACADEMIA
TURNS OUT TO BE DIFFERENT THAN
WHAT FRENCH PROFESSOR AND SINGLE
MOTHER NICOLE BETH WALLENBROCK
HAD IN MIND.
>> I'VE BEEN ON FOOD STAMPS FOR,
I THINK, ABOUT SIX MONTHS.
>> Reporter: ARIK GREENBERG
TEACHES THEOLOGY AT LOYOLA
MARYMOUNT UNIVERSITY.
>> Reporter: WE ARE NOT GIVEN
ANY KIND OF BENEFITS.
VISION, NO RETIREMENT, NO FAMILY
LEAVE, NO SICK LEAVE, NOTHING.
>> Reporter: TO SUPPORT HIS
FAMILY, ROB BALLA DRIVES TO
THREE DIFFERENT OHIO
UNIVERSITIES TO TEACH SIX
ENGLISH CLASSES AND TUTORS ON
THE SIDE.
HE HAD PNEUMONIA LAST FALL,
WORKED ANYWAY.
>> WE GO TO SCHOOL UNDER ANY
CIRCUMSTANCES REALLY, BECAUSE
YOU CAN'T AFFORD TO HAVE YOUR
PAY DOCKED.
>> Reporter: THESE ARE ADJUNCTS,
PART-TIME PROFESSORS PAID AN
AVERAGE OF $2,000-$3,000 PER
CLASS WITH FEW TO NO BENEFITS
WHO NOW MAKE UP HALF OF COLLEGE
FACULTIES-- A DRASTIC CHANGE
FROM JUST A FEW DECADES AGO.
>> IN 1970, ABOUT 80% OF THE
FACULTY WERE ON THE TENURE
TRACK.
>> Reporter: BUT NON-TENURED
FACULTY HAVE BECOMEHE R TULE,
SAYS EDUCATION PROFESSOR
ADRIANNA KEZAR.
>> THIS TRAJECTORY STARTED IN
COMMUNITY COLLEGES, IT SPREAD
ACROSS FOUR-YEAR INSTITUTIONS
AND RESEARCH UNIVERSITIES AND
IT'S PUBLIC AND PRIVATE.
>> Reporter: NICOLE BETH
WALLENBROCK GOT A Ph.D. IN
FRENCH LIT TO BECOME A FULL-TIME
PROFESSOR ANYWHERE.
>> I HAD THIS IDEA THAT I COULD
GET A JOB SO THAT I COULD HAVE A
GOOD INCOME TO SUPPORT MY SON,
AND IT DIDN'T WORK OUT THAT WAY.
>> Reporter: SINCE GRADUATING IN
2012, SHE'S WORKED PART-TIME AND
IS NOW TEACHING JUST TWO COURSES
AT THE CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW
YORK, MAKING $2,800 A CLASS,
THOUGH SHE'S MORE HIGHLY-RATED
THAN ALMOST ALL OF HER PEERS.
SHE'S MOVED TO THE CHEAPEST
PLACE SHE COULD FIND ON THE
OUTSKIRTS OF THE CITY, A THREE-
HOUR A DAY COMMUTE.
BUT SHE CAN'T MAKE IT WITHOUT
PUBLIC ASSISTANCE AND HELP FROM
HER FAMILY.
>> I'M A PRECARIOUS WORKER.
I HAVE NO JOB SECURITY.
SO I HAVE TO ACCEPT WHATEVER I
CAN GET.
IT'S DEPRESSING.
IT MAKES ME FEEL LIKE A FAILURE
IN A LOT OF WAYS.
>> IT HAS GONE IN THE DIRECTION
OF BIG BUSINESS-- OF HIRING MORE
AND MORE PART-TIMERS TO DO THE
WORK OF FULL-TIMERS.
>> Reporter: ARIK GREENBERG HAS
BEEN AN ADJUNCT FOR MORE THAN A
DECADE.
HE BRINGS IN $20,000 A YEAR.
>> IF I'M NOT TEACHING DURING
THE SUMMER, I GO ON
UNEMPLOYMENT.
IT KEEPS US GOING FOR A WHILE.
IT PUTS FOOD ON THE TABLE.
>> Reporter: AND THESE ARE JUST
A FEW EXAMPLES OF THE
ADJUNCTIVITIS EPIDEMIC.
ADDING THESE PART-TIMERS-- WHO
ARE HALF OF ALL FACULTY -- TO
FULL-TIME PROFESSORS WITHOUT
TENURE AND MUCH LOWER PAY, MORE
THAN 70% OF AMERICA'S COLLEGE
TEACHERS ARE SO-CALLED
CONTINGENT.
MANY ARE UNAVAILABLE TO THEIR
MYRIAD STUDENTS, GIVEN THEIR
NECESSARILY SHORTER OFFICE
HOURS, SAYS LONGTIME ADJUNCT JOE
FRUSCIONE.
LESS ENERGY IN THE CLASSROOM,
FEWER COMMENTS WHEN GRADING
PAPERS OR TESTS.
>> YOU CAN RACE THROUGH THEM,
BUT TO GIVE MEANINGFUL,
CONCRETE, DETAILED FEEDBACK THAT
A LOT OF THESE STUDENTS NEED,
IT'S VIRTUALLY IMPOSSIBLE.
>> Reporter: BUT ARE STUDENTS
REALLY GETTING SHORT SHRIFT?
TERRY HARTLE IS WITH THE
AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION.
>> IN SOME DISCIPLINES--
PARTICULARLY OCCUPATIONALLY
ORIENTED FIELDS-- YOU MAY BE
AHEAD BY HAVING AN ADJUNCT
FACULTY MEMBER WHO'S GOT
EXTRAORDINARY LEVELS OF REAL
WORLD EXPERIENCE.
>> Reporter: BUT DON'T ADJUNCTS
TEACH IN ALL DISCIPLINES?
LOOK, SAYS HARTLE, BOTTOM LINE,
SCHOOLS HAVE NO CHOICE.
>> THE PRESSURES ON COLLEGES AND
UNIVERSITIES TO MAINTAIN
TUITION, TO PREVENT TUITION
HIKES, ARE EXTRAORDINARILY HIGH.
DOES THE USE OF CONTINGENT
FACULTY LIKE ADJUNCTS PROVIDE
MORE FLEXIBILITY TO COLLEGES AND
UNIVERSITIES AS ECONOMIC
ENTERPRISES THAT NEED TO STAY IN
BUSINESS, YES IT CERTAINLY DOES
THAT.
>> Reporter: WOULD YOU BE HAPPY
IF YOUR MEMBERS WERE PAYING A
LITTLE MORE TO ADJUNCTS?
>> NOBODY FORCES SOMEONE TO
BECOME AN ADJUNCT.
IT IS A VERY DIFFICULT WAY TO
MAKE A FULL-TIME LIVING.
>> Reporter: PETER BROWN,
PROFESSOR EMERITUS AT THE STATE
UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK, NEW
PALTZ, BELIEVES COLLEGES ARE
EXPLOITING ADJUNCTS SO THEY CAN
SPEND MORE ON NON-ACADEMIC
NICETIES.
>> A LOT OF MONEY IS SPENT NOT
JUST ON COACHES, BUT ON
ATHLETICS, ON STADIUMS, ON FANCY
FACILITIES, ON CLIMBING WALLS.
THE TUITION DOLLARS OUGHT TO GO
TOWARDS THE INSTRUCTION IN THE
CLASSROOM, NOT WHAT HAPPENS
OUTSIDE.
>> WHAT'S OUTRAGEOUS?
ADJUNCT WAGES!
>> Reporter: STUDENTS AND
FACULTY ACROSS THE COUNTRY ARE
NOW RALLYING FOR HIGHER ADJUNCT
PAY AND THE RIGHT TO UNIONIZE.
>> ADJUNCTS ARE THE LOWEST PAID
PEOPLE ON CAMPUS.
THEY GET PAID LESS THAN THE
FOLKS WHO COME IN AT NIGHT TO
CLEAN THE CLASSROOMS.
>> Reporter: BROWN IS
CAMPAIGNING TO UP ADJUNCT
COMPENSATION AT NEW PALTZ WHERE
THE AVERAGE PART-TIMER MAKES
JUST $12,000 A YEAR.
>> ON THE OTHER END OF THE
SPECTRUM, THERE ARE PEOPLE WHO
MAKE HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF
DOLLARS AS PROVOSTS, AS
PRESIDENTS, AS CHANCELLORS.
BETWEEN 1970 AND 2008, ADJUNCT
PAY HAS COME DOWN 49%.
COLLEGE PRESIDENTS' SALARY HAS
GONE UP 35%.
>> Reporter: BROWN, AND OTHERS
THROUGHOUT ACADEMIA, WERE
GALVANIZED BY THE DEATH LAST
FALL OF 83-YEAR-OLD DUQUESNE
UNIVERSITY ADJUNCT MARGARET MARY
VOJTKO.
>> SHE HAD BEEN TEACHING THERE
FOR OVER 20 YEARS AND GETTING
GOOD EVALUATIONS.
SHE WAS SUDDENLY NON-RENEWED.
SHE WAS IMPOVERISHED AND
BASICALLY DIED SO POOR THAT SHE
HAD TO BE BURIED IN A CARDBOARD
BOX.
>> Reporter: DUQUESNES RESPONSE?
THEY TRIED TO HELP WITH SHELTER
AND OTHER ASSISTANCE IN THE
MONTHS BEFORE HER DEATH.
BUT IF POVERTY IS WHAT HALF OF
COLLEGE FACULTY MIGHT BE FACING,
WHY DO SCHOOLS CONTINUE TO OFFER
GRADUATE DEGREES TO THE LIKES OF
NICOLE BETH WALLENBROCK?
>> THEY KEEP ACCEPTING MORE AND
MORE Ph.D. STUDENTS AT AMERICAN
UNIVERSITIES BECAUSE THEY NEED
TO KEEP THEIR OWN CLASSES FULL.
>> Reporter: I PUT THE QUESTION
TO COLLEGE SPOKESMAN TERRY
HARTLE.
ARE UNIVERSITIES ARGUABLY BEING
IRRESPONSIBLE BY TURNING OUT AS
MANY Ph.D.s INTO A JOB MARKET
WHERE SOME PEOPLE WIND UP GOING
ON FOOD STAMPS?
>> PEOPLE WHO GET Ph.DdS OWE IT
TO THEMSELVES TO THINK LONG AND
HARD ABOUT THE LABOR MARKET THAT
THEY'RE ENTERING.
>> Reporter: FORMER GEORGE
WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY PRESIDENT
STEPHEN TRACHTENBERG GOES
FURTHER.
>> I HAVE COUNSELED ADJUNCT
FACULTY AT SOME POINT IF THEY
ARE NOT EARNING ENOUGH TO
SUPPORT THEMSELVES TO NOT DO
THAT AND GO DO SOMETHING ELSE
WITH THEIR LIVES.
MERELY BECAUSE YOU'VE EARNED A
Ph.D. DOES NOT OBLIGE YOU TO
TAKE ON A LIFE OF TENURE.
>> Reporter: THOUGH HE WASN'T
PERSONALLY COUNSELED BY
TRACHTENBERG, ADJUNCT JOE
FRUSCIONE IS TAKING THAT ADVICE
AFTER 14 YEARS TEACHING ENGLISH
AT GEORGE WASHINGTON AND
ELSEWHERE.
>> ALL OF THE EXPERIENCE I HAVE
GAINED HASN'T GOTTEN ME AND
WON'T GET ME ANY KIND OF
MEANINGFUL TENURE TRACK
POSITION.
I HAVE DECIDED THAT MY WAY OF
FIXING ALL THAT IS LEAVING THE
SYSTEM.
>> Reporter: ENTIRELY?
>> ENTIRELY, YES I'M GOING TO BE
DOING SOME FREELANCE EDITING AND
WRITING.
>> Reporter: WE FIRST MET
FRUSCIONE LAST YEAR WHILE
REPORTING ON THE GRAYING
WORKFORCE IN ACADEMIA.
HE WAS WORKING PART-TIME JOBS AT
MULTIPLE SCHOOLS AND LEADING
WORKSHOPS AT A BOOKSTORE ON THE
SIDE.
SINCE THEN, HE'S LOST ONE OF THE
COLLEGE GIGS AND SAYS HE'S HAD
ENOUGH.
>> I AM VERY, VERY FORTUNATE IN
THAT MY WIFE IS THE BREADWINNER
>> Reporter: NICOLE BETH
WALLENBROCK SAYS SHE CAN'T GIVE
UP TEACHING AND DOESN'T WANT TO.
>> I DON'T KNOW WHAT OTHER PLACE
IN SOCIETY THERE IS FOR ME.
I LOVE TEACHING AND I LOVE
RESEARCHING AND WRITING, SO I
HAVEN'T GIVEN UP ON THIS DREAM
YET.
>> Reporter: AND CONSIDERING ALL
THE RESOURCES SHE AND OUR
SOCIETY HAVE PUT INTO HER
EDUCATION, THERE'S ARGUABLY AN
ECONOMIC REASON TO KEEP
DREAMING.
>> Woodruff: A LONGTIME FIXTURE
AND RATINGS CHAMPION OF LATE
NIGHT TELEVISION PREPARES TO SAY
GOODBYE AS THE NETWORK AIMS TO
EXPAND ITS AUDIENCE IN AN
INCREASINGLY FRAGMENTED MARKET
OF VIEWERS.
HARI SREENIVASAN LOOKS AT THE
THINKING BEHIND THE MOVE. YEARS
OF HOSTING "THE TONIGHT SHOW,"
JAY LENO IS PACKING IT IN AFTER
ONE LAST PROGRAM TONIGHT.
THE 63-YEAR-OLD COMEDIAN BEGAN
HIS RUN AS HOST IN 1992, WHEN
JOHNNY CARSON RETIRED AFTER 30
YEARS ON THE JOB.
IN 2009, N.B.C BRIEFLY MOVED
LENO TO A 10 P.M. TIME SLOT AND
TAPPED CONAN O'BRIEN TO REPLACE
HIM ON "THE TONIGHT SHOW," BUT
THE RATINGS DID POORLY AND LENO
RETURNED TO HIS LATE NIGHT GIG.
>> H.B.O, WHEN YOU MAKE THE
MOVIE ABOUT THIS WHOLE N.B.C
LATE NIGHT FIASCO I WOULD LIKE
TO BE PLAYED BY ACADEMY AWARD-
WINNING ACTRESS TILDA SWINTON.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS TIME, LENO
IS LEAVING FOR GOOD, ANDSAYS
HE'LL PLAY COMEDY CLUBS AND DO
OCCASIONAL T.V. WORK.
REPLACING HIM: JIMMY FALLON,
WHO'S HOSTED "LATE NIGHT WITH
JIMMY FALLON" SINCE 2009.
HE AND HIS HIP-HOP STUDIO BAND
THE ROOTS PROMISE TO BRING A
YOUNGER, HIPPER AIR TO THE
VENERABLE "TONIGHT SHOW".
FALLON FORMALLY TAKES OVER ON
FEBRUARY 17th.
>> Sreenivasan: WE'RE JOINED NOW
BY BILL CARTER FROM THE "NEW
YORK TIMES" WHO'S WRITTEN
EXTENSIVELY ABOUT LATE NIGHT
TELEVISION.
BILL, WHY IS THIS TRANSITION SO
IMPORTANT?
>> WELL, THE CHANGEOVER AT THE
"TONIGHT SHOW" HAS ALWAYS BEEN
KIND OF A NATIONAL EVENT.
I THINK THIS ONE IS BEING
WATCHED REALLY CLOSELY BECAUSE
THE LAST ONE WENT SO BADLY.
AND IT IS A GENERATIONAL SHIFT.
IT IS A TRUE GENERATIONAL SHIFT
LIKE N THAT LENO COULD BE JIMMY
FALLON'S FATHER.
HE'S 24 YEARS OLDER AND CLEARLY
HAS HAD A LONG RUN AND FALLON
HAS BEEN DESIGNATED AS HEIR AND
IT'S GETTING A LOT OF ATTENTION
BECAUSE OF THAT.
>> Sreenivasan: NBC HAS TRIED A
YOUNGER HOST BEFORE AS YOU
MENTIONED.
WHY IS JIMMY FALLON DIFFERENT?
>> I THINK FALLON IS A BROADER
PERFORMER, MORE OF A VARIETY
STYLE ENTERTAINER. DOES HAVE I A
BOYISH APPEAL THAT THEY LIKE.
AND HE'S BEEN ON "SATURDAY NIGHT
LIVE," THEY LIKE THAT IDEA THAT
THE SHOW WILL CHANGE UP FROM
BEING A STANDUPCENTRIC TO MUCH
MORE OF A SKETCH PERFORMER AND
THEY THINK THIS GUY IS GOING TO
BE MUCH MORE LIKABLE AND THEY'RE
PUTTING THEIR CHIPS ON HIM BASED
ON HIS SUCCESS SO FAR.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW RELEVANT IS
LATE NIGHT TELEVISION?
HOW MUCH OF IT DOES IT MATTER TO
ADVERTISERS.
>> IT'S NOT AS LUCRATIVE AS IT
USED TO BE AND PART OF THE
REASON FAR IS THAT THE LANDSCAPE
IS PACKED WITH THESE SHOWS.
THERE'S SO MANY OF THEM.
IF THERE'S ONLY TWO OF THEM
YOU'D PROBABLY SEE BIGGER
RATINGS AND MUCH BETTER
ADVERTISING REVENUE.
I THINK ADVERTISERS LIKE THE
FACT THAT THE GUY IS ON FIVE
NIGHTS A WEEK.
THERE'S A LOT OF AIRTIME AND IF
YOU GET A HOST THAT PEOPLE
DECIDE THEY LIKE AND TUNE INTO
REGULARLY IT'S A STEADY AUDIENCE
AND THE SHOWS ARE NOT
PARTICULARLY EXPENSIVE.
THE HOSTS TEND TO BE VERY WELL
PAID BUT, YOU KNOW, FOR FIVE
HOURS OF TELEVISION, THIS IS NOT
AN EXPENSIVE FORMAT.
HOWEVER, I DO THINK IT IS
CRITICAL THAT THEY REACH A
CERTAIN AMOUNT OF VIEWERS OR IF
THEY GO BELOW IT THEN THE SHOW
STARTS TO FALL INTO THE RED.
NOBODY NEEDS THAT.
I THINK THIS IS GOING TO BE A
VERY INTERESTING TEST.
THEY NEED FALLON TO BROADEN THE
YOUNGER AUDIENCE AND KEEP A GOOD
CHUNK OF LENO'S OLDER AUDIENCE
AND THEY'LL BE FINE.
>>.
>> Pelley: NBC HAS HAD A ROUGH
GO OF IT SO HOW IMPORTANT IS
THIS SHOW TO THEIR BUSINESS?
>> I THINK IT'S MORE IMPORTANT
TO NBC'S IMAGE THAN THEIR
BUSINESS.
KOK CAST IS AN ENORMOUS
ORGANIZATION THAT OWNS NBC NBC
AND THEY HAVE FANTASTIC PROFIT
CENTERS ON CABLE BUT THE
"TONIGHT SHOW" IS AN
INSTITUTION.
IT'S AN AMERICAN CULTURAL
INSTITUTION AND FOR NBC IT'S AN
ENORMOUSLY IMPORTANT PART OF
THEIR HISTORY AND THEIR
PORTFOLIO.
LIKE THE "TODAY" SHOW AND
SATURDAY NIGHT LIFE.
THOSE FRANCHISES THAT NOBODY
ELSE HAS, NBC REALLY WANTS TO
KEEP THEM ALIVE AND GOING.
IT'S GOING TO BE VERY VISIBLE
GOING FORWARD IN THE FUTURE
BECAUSE A LOT OF THE TIME PEOPLE
ARE GOING TO WATCH THESE GUYS ON
VIDEO, NOT NECESSARILY ON
TELEVISION.
BUT FOR NBC, THE IDEA OF THE
"TONIGHT SHOW" IS STILL A VERY
BIG PART OF THEIR PORTFOLIO.
>> Sreenivasan: WHEN A VIEWER
LOOKS AT THIS GENRE FROM THE
OUTSIDE, IT'S THREE GUYS DOING
PRETTY MUCH THE SAME THING.
HOW DIFFERENT TSE THIS PROGRAM
LIKELY TO BE?
>> WELL, THE BASIC STRUCTURE
DOESN'T CHANGE, I THINK, BECAUSE
EACH TIME ONE OF THE HOSTS HAVE
TRIED TO CHANGE IT HAS FAILED.
SO IT ALWAYS STARTS WITH A
MONOLOGUE, IT ALWAYS HAS A DESK
AND COUCH.
BEYOND THAT, I THINK WHAT YOU'LL
SEE DIFFERENT FROM FALLON IS WAY
MORE VARIETY AND SKETCH AND
MUSIC ORIENTED MATERIAL BECAUSE
THAT'S WHAT HE'S GREAT AT.
HE'S AN IMPRESSIONIST AND HE
DOES BITS WITH SPRINGSTEEN WITH
MUSIC.
I THINK HE'S MORE AN ENTERTAINER
THAN A COMIC.
SO THE STYLE OF THE SHOW WILL BE
FUNDAMENTALLY CHANGED FROM WHAT
YOU'VE SEEN WITH JAY LENO ALL
THESE YEARS.
>> Sreenivasan: THERE ARE RUMORS
OUT THERE THAT JAY LENO MIGHT GO
ELSEWHERE.
WHAT ARE YOU HEARING?
>> WELL, A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE
SPECULATING ABOUT JAY BUT JAY
HAS KEPT HIS FIRE DOWN I THINK
HE WILL WAIT UNTIL HIS CONTRACT
IS UP WHICH IS SEPTEMBER THEN
HE'LL TAKE CALLS.
BUT HE HAS TO BE CAREFUL.
I DON'T THINK HE WANTS TO JUMP
INTO SOMETHING WHERE IT WOULD
REALLY LOOK LIKE IT'S A LAME
VERSION OF THE "TONIGHT SHOW"
SOMEBODY WILL CALL HIM, THOUGH,
BECAUSE HE'S BEEN A WINNER AND
WINNERS ALWAYS GET CALLS SO I
THINK HE WOULD PROBABLY TURN UP
ON TELEVISION OR PERHAPS THE
INTERNET IF HE DECIDES THERE'S A
FORMAT LIKE -- SEINFELD CAME UP
WITH A GREAT FORMAT FOR HIM LEFT
DO SOMETHING BECAUSE JAY LIKES
TO TELL JOKES EVERYDAY.
HE LOVES THAT AND I THINK HE'LL
CONTINUE TO DO THAT AS LONG AS
HE FINDS THE RIGHT FORUM.
>> Sreenivasan: BILL CARTER FROM
THE "NEW YORK TIMES," THANKS SO
MUCH.
>> OKAY.
>> Woodruff: IN THIS NOVEMBER'S
MID-TERM ELECTIONS, HAVING TO
DEFEND 21 SEATS COMPARED TO 14
FOR REPUBLICANS.
AMONG THE TOP TARGETS FOR
REPUBLICANS ARE SEVEN SEATS
CURRENTLY HELD BY DEMOCRATS IN
STATES THAT MITT ROMNEY WON
IN 2012: ALASKA, ARKANSAS,
LOUISIANA, MONTANA, NORTH
CAROLINA, SOUTH DAKOTA AND
WEST VIRGINIA.
DEMOCRATS, MEANWHILE,
VIEW KENTUCKY AND GEORGIA AS
THEIR BEST PICK-UP
OPPORTUNITIES.
AS THE TWO PARTIES STOCKPILE
RESOURCES FOR THE FALL CAMPAIGN,
OUTSIDE GROUPS HAVE ALREADY
BEGUN SPENDING MASSIVE
SUMS OF MONEY.
IN FACT, AMERICANS FOR
PROSPERITY, WHICH IS BACKED BY
CONSERVATIVE BILLIONAIRES
CHARLES AND DAVID KOCH, HAS
SPENT $27 MILLION ON ADS SINCE
AUGUST.
WE EXAMINE THE ROLE THIS MONEY
COULD PLAY IN SHAPING THE BATTLE
FOR THE SENATE WITH MATEA GOLD.
SHE REPORTS ON MONEY AND
POLITICS FOR "THE WASHINGTON
POST."
WELCOME AGAIN TO
THE PROGRAM.
>> GREAT TO BE HERE JUDY.
>> Pelley: MATTEA, POLITICAL
FUND RAISING IS SO COMPLEX.
I DON'T THINK PEOPLE REALIZE HOW
MANY DIFFERENT WAYS MONEY CAN
FLOW INTO A CAMPAIGN.
JUST REMIND US WHAT THOSE ARE.
>> SURE.
AT THE HEART OF IT YOU'VE ALWAYS
HAD YOUR CANDIDATE COMMITTEE, SO
CANDIDATES RUNNING FOR
REELECTION.
THEY RAISE MONEY TO THEIR
REELECTION COMMITTEH
HAVE THE PARTY COMMITTEE.
BUT POST-CITIZEN UNITED --.
>> Woodruff: THE SUPREME COURT
RULING.
>> THAT ALLOWED CORPORATIONS TO
SPEND DIRECTLY ON POLITICS AND
USHERED IN OTHER CHANGES AS
WELL.
WE HAVE A REAL EXPLOSION OF
ACTIVITY OUTSIDE THEIR
TRADITIONAL STRUCTURES SO
THERE'S BEEN A CREATION OF
SOMETHING CALLED SUPER PACS
WHICH MOST PEOPLE HAVE HEARD
ABOUT WHICH ARE ALSO POLITICAL
COMMITTEES BUT THEY CAN TAKE IN
UNLIMITED SUMS OF MONEY.
NOW WE HAVE TAX-EXEMPT GROUPS,
501(C)(4) ORGANIZATIONS THAT ARE
SET UP UNDER A SECTION OF THE
TAX CODE AS SOCIAL WELFARE
ORGANIZATIONS THAT ARE PERMITTED
TO DO SOME POLITICAL ACTIVITY
BUT ARE INCREASINGLY ENGAGING IN
CAMPAIGNS.
THE.
>> Woodruff: SOME OF YOUR
REPORTING IS FOCUSING ON THESE
PARTICULAR GROUPS BECAUSE, AS WE
WERE JUST SAYING, THEY ARE
RAISING EXTRAORDINARY AMOUNTS OF
MONEY.
WHAT ARE YOU FINDING?
>> THEY REALLY ARE.
I THINK WHAT WE'RE SEEING IS AN
ACCELERATION OF THE TRENDS WE
SAW THROUGH THE LAST TWO
ELECTIONS WHICH IS THAT THE
MONEY IS INCREASINGLY FLOWING TO
THE UNREGULATED, UNDISCLOSED
ORGANIZATIONS OUTSIDE THE
TRADITIONAL STRUCTURE.
SO TAX-EXEMPT GROUPS LIKE
AMERICANS FOR PROSPERITY ARE
TAKING ON AN OUTSIZED ROLE.
WHAT'S SO STRIKING ABOUT THEIR
SPENDING IS NOT JUST THE AMOUNT
BUT HOW EARLY WE'RE SEEING THEM
JUMP IN AND DEFINE LANDSCAPE FOR
THESE MIDTERMS.
>> Woodruff: BY THE WAY, THIS
THIS MAY BE TAKING MONEY AWAY--
WE'RE NOT SURE YET COMPLETELY--
FROM OTHER GROUPS THAT WERE
TRYING TO RAISE MONEY.
>> WE'RE NOT SURE HOW IT WILL
PLAY OUT IN THE END.
ONE THING THAT'S BEEN STRIKING
IS THE BIG CONSERVATIVE SUPER
PACS FROM 2012 SUCH AS AMERICAN
CROSS ROADS HAVE HAD PALTRY FUND
RAISING SO FAR THIS YEAR.
THERE'S A SENSE AMONG
CONSERVATIVE DONORS THAT I THINK
THEY'RE WATCHING WHERE THEY GIVE
THEIR MONEY BECAUSE SO MUCH WAS
TENT?
2012 AND THEY OBVIOUSLY DIDN'T
ACHIEVE THEIR AIMS.
BUT C 4 GROUPS SEEM TO BE VERY
HEALTHY AND CANDIDATE SUPER PACS
ARE SEEING SPECIFICS, RACE-BASED
PACS SET UP IN THE STATES AND
EVERYONE HAS THEIR OWN SUPER PAC
NOW.
>> Woodruff: WHERE IS THIS
FALLING ON THE POLITICAL
SPECTRUM.
THE NONPROFIT GROUPS YOU'VE BEEN
FOCUSED ON IN THIS LATEST STORY
ARE PRETTY MUCH ON THE RIGHT END
OF THE SPECTRUM, RIGHT?
>> THERE'S NO QUESTION THAT THE
MOST ROBUST SPENDING BY C-4s IS
ON THE RIGHT END OF THE
SPECTRUM.
CONSERVATIVES USE THE VEHICLES
MORE THAN ON THE LEFT BUT WE DO
SEE THAT SPENDING ON THE LEFT AS
WELL AND WHAT'S BEEN INTERESTING
THIS CYCLE IS THE DEMOCRATIC
SUPER PACS THAT WERE STRUGGLING
TO MATCH THE FUND RAISING WITH
THE REPUBLICAN COUNTERPARTS LAST
TIME ARE SEEING VERY HEALTHY
FUND-RAISING AND DEMOCRATS SEEM
VERY WILLING TO GIVE TO THESE
GROUPS RIGHT NOW.
>> Woodruff: SO YOU'VE BEEN
TALKING TO PEOPLE AND DOING YOUR
REPORTING.
WHAT ARE THEY SAYING ABOUT WHY
THEY'RE DOING IT SO EARLY?
WHY THIS MUCH MONEY THIS EARLLY.
>> ONE OF THE LESSONS FROM 2012
I THINK WAS THE TRADITIONAL
FLOOD OF SPENDING WE SEE IN THE
FALL RIGHT BEFORE ELECTION DAY.
THAT'S TOO LATE NOW.
PEOPLE ARE SO BOMBARDED WITH
MESSAGES THAT YOU NEED TO REACH
INCREASINGLY EARLY TO GET YOUR
POINT ACROSS.
KNEW MEANS THE FALL BEFORE.
SO I THINK ONE OF THE RISKS IS
THAT A LOT OF VOTERS ARE GOING
TO START TUNING OUT THESE ADS
WAY BEFORE THEY MAKE UP THEIR
MIND ABOUT WHO THEY'LL VOTE FOR.
>> Woodruff: IT'S INTERESTING
THAT IT'S HAPPENING BEFORE EVEN
-- IN ALL THESE CASES BEFORE THE
PRIMARIES AND BEFORE ONE EVEN
KNOWS WHO THE CANDIDATE IS GOING
TO BE.
>> FOR SURE.
>> Woodruff: SO WHAT'S THEIR
THINKING IN DOING IT BEFORE IT'S
KNOWN WHO THE CONTESTANTS ARE
GOING TO BE?
>> WELL, EACH GROUP HAS
DIFFERENT MOTIVATIONS, WHAT'S
INTERESTING IS AMERICANS FOR
PROSPERITY HAS BEEN REALLY
FOCUSED JUST ON HITTING
VULNERABLE DEMOCRATS,
PARTICULARLY INCUMBENT DEMOCRATS
FACING TOUGH REELECTIONS IN THE
FALL.
THEY'RE NOT ENGAGING IN PRIMARY
FIGHTS AND THEY REALLY KIND OF
SOFTENING THEM UP BEFORE SOME OF
THE REPUBLICAN CANDIDATES ARE
EVEN SELECTED IN THE PRIMARIES.
AND A LOT OF THE MONEY BEING
SPENT ON THE RIGHT IS ACTUALLY
BEING SPENT BY CONSERVATIVE
GROUPS VERSUS ESTABLISH
REPUBLICAN GROUPS THAT ARE
REALLY FIGHTING OVER THE
DIRECTION OF THE PARTY.
SO WE'RE SEEING THAT UNDERSCORE
ALL ACROSS THE POLITICAL
SPECTRUM.
>> Woodruff: AND YOU FOUND,
THOUGH, A COMMON THEME IN SOME
OF THESE ADS BEING AIRED.
>> SURE.
AMERICANS FOR PROSPER CITY
REALLY JUST HITTING DEMOCRATS ON
OBAMACARE.
THERE'S THE CORE FOR THE
PRESIDENT'S SIGNATURE HEALTH
CARE LEGISLATION.
ANOTHER LESSON FROM 2012 BY
GROUPS ON THE RIGHT WAS THAT
EYY MESSAGES.
VOTERS WERE HEARING TOO MANY
REASONS WHY THEY SHOULD VOTE
AGAINST OBAMA SO THERE'S FOCUS
ON MESSAGE DISCIPLINE THIS TIME
AROUND.
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE, WHAT ARE
DEMOCRATS SAYING TO YOU ABOUT
THEIR HOPES OF BEING ABLE TO
CATCH UP WITH THIS AMOUNT OF
MONEY AND ADVERTISING?
>> WELL, THE DEMOCRATS ARE
AGGRESSIVELY FOCUSING ON THE
CONNECTION BETWEEN A.S.P. AND
THE KOCH BROTHERS.
THAT'S A GREAT FUND-RAISING TOOL
FOR THEM AND THEY'RE MAKING A
LOT OUT OF THAT IN EACH SPECIFIC
RACE.
AND THEY'RE SUCCEEDING IN CASES
AND RAISING HEALTHY SUMS OF
MONEY AND I THINK WE'RE GOING TO
SEE -- THEY'RE NOT GOING TO HAVE
A MATCH, I DON'T THINK, THE
RESOURCES THAT THE TAX-EXEMPT
GROUPS ON THE RIGHT WILL HAVE
BUT THEY WILL PROBABLY BE ABLE
TO BE VERY ENGAGED THROUGHOUT
THE YEAR.
>> Woodruff: MATEA GOLD, A LOT
TO KEEP YOUR EYE ON.
THANK YOU.
>> MY PLEASURE, THANKS.
>> Ifill: TAKING A FRESH LOOK AT
A TIMELESS TREASURE, JEFFREY
BROWN HAS OUR BOOK CONVERSATION.
>> Brown: IT'S PERHAPS THE MOST
FAMOUS BUILDING IN THE WORLD,
THE PARTHENON INTHEN AS, GREECE,
BUILT IN THE 5th CENTURY B.C.,
IT'S BECOME A SYMBOL OF THE VERY
IDEA OF DEMOCRACY IN WESTERN
CIVILIZATION AS WELL AS AN
ARCHITECTURAL MODEL FOR OTHER
IMPORTANT STRUCTURES INCLUDING
THE U.S. SUPREME COURT.
A NEW BOOK "THE PARTHENON
ENIGMA" TELLS THE STORY OF THE
PEOPLE WHO BUILT IT AND HOW IT'S
BEEN UNDERSTOOD RIGHTLY AND
WRONGLY.
JOAN BRETTON CONNELLY IS A
ARCHITECT AND PROFESSOR AT NEW
YORK UNIVERSITY.
YOUR SUBTITLE REFERS TO THE
PARTHENON AS THE WORLD'S MOST
ICONIC BUILDING.
IONIC IN WHAT SENSE IN HOW DO
YOU DEFINE WHAT IT'S COME TO
MEAN?
>> IT STANDS FOR SO MUCH TO SO
MANY GENERATIONS OF PEOPLE.
IT IS A BUILDING THAT IS
INSTANTLY RECOGNIZABLE.
IT IS A BUILDINGING THAT IS
ENDOWED WITH MEETING, THE
BIRTHPLACE OF DEMOCRACY IN
PARTICULAR OVER THE AGES,
ESPECIALLY THE ENLIGHTENMENT
ONWARDS IT SETS THE STAGE FOR
EVERYTHING THAT WE REGARD AS OUR
HIGHEST IDEALS, PERFECTION IN
PROPORTION AND AESTHETICS.
THE.
>> Brown: BUT THEN YOUR ARGUMENT
IS THAT IN TAKING ALL THAT IN
FROM THE ENLIGHTENMENT ON WE'VE
SOMEHOW MISSED SOMETHING.
WE'VE MISSED THE GREX THEMSELVES
>> WE GOT IT WRONG, WHEN YOU'RE
CONFRONTED WITH AN OBJECT OF
BEAUTY WE LIKE THAT SEE
OURSELVES IN IT, REFLECTED
GLORY.
BUT WHEN WE TRY TO LOOK AT IT
THROUGH ANCIENT EYE WES SEE A
VERY DIFFERENT REALITY, A
SPIRITUAL REALITY, ONE A DEEP,
DARK MYTH BEHIND IT.
>> Brown: EXPLAIN THAT.
FIRST OF ALL WE THINK OF IT AS A
TEMPLE OF DEMOCRACY BUT IT WAS A
RELIGIOUS TEMPLE, RIGHT?
>> IT INVOLVE IT IS FOUNDATION
OF ATHENS ITSELF.
THE FIRST KING AND QUEEN OF
ATHENS AND HOW WHEN THE FIRST
BAR BANEIAN HOARDS CAME AND
SURROUNDED THE ACROPOLIS THEY
WENT TO THE ORACLE AND SAID "HOW
CAN WE SAVE OUR ANY" AND THE
ORACLE DEMANDS THAT THEIR VIRGIN
CAUGHT THER BE SACRIFICED.
AND SO NAY GIVE THE ULTIMATE
SACRIFICE FOR SAVING OF THE
CITY.
THIS IS EXTRAORDINARY AGAINST
THE BACKDROP OF THEIR OWN TIMES.
THAT IS THE NOTION THAT THE MOST
ELITE PEOPLE IN THE CITY, THE
ROYAL FAMILY ITSELF, WOULD MAKE
THE SACRIFICE SO THAT THEIR
PEOPLE COULD SURVIVE.
>> Brown: SO HUMAN SACRIFICE
DOES NOT GO VERY WELL WITH
CONTEMPORARY BOUNDARIES.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
AND IT'S DISARMING TO SEE THAT
THE ICON OF DEMOCRACY MIGHT HAVE
ABOVE ITS DOOR A SCENE OF HUMAN
SACRIFICE.
BUT THIS IS A METAPHOR FOR WHAT
THE ATHENIANS VALUED MOST AND
WHAT IS IMPORTANT HERE IS THAT
THEIR NOTION OF DEMOCRACY HAD AT
ITS CORE THE IDEA OF THE COMMON
GOOD.
INDIVIDUAL INTERESTS WERE FINE,
WE TALK ABOUT THEM A LOT TODAY
BUT THE BUILDING BLOCKS, THE
SPIRITUAL CORE OF ATHENIAN
DEMOCRACY WAS THIS NOTION OF A
COMMON GOOD.
>> Brown: SCHOLARS LIKE YOURSELF
HAVE BEEN LOOKING AT THIS FOR A
LONG, LONG TIME, RIGHT?
WHAT'S INTERESTING READING HERE
IS THAT IT'S ALWAYS INTERPRETED
THROUGH OUR OWN -- ANYBODY'S
CONTEMPORARY TIME.
>> THIS IS VERY UNDERSTANDABLE.
IT'S COMPLETELY HUMAN TO SEE
YOURSELVES IN THE PAST THE MOST
BASIC HUMAN QUESTION IS "WHERE
DO I COME FROM"?
AND YOU WANT TO FIND YOURSELF
THE PAST.
SO I DON'T HAVE A PROBLEM WITH
THAT, IT'S JUST THAT WE'VE GOT
NEW DATA.
AND WHEN NEW DATA EMERGES, THIS
DATA CHANGES OUR OLD IDEALS AND
ASSUMPTIONS.
>> Brown: WHAT HAS CHANGED IN
THE LAST DECADES THAT WE KNOW
MORE NOW
>> WELL, FOR STARTERS, IT HAS 30
YEARS, THE ACROPOLIS RESTORATION
PROGRAM HAS UNDERTAKE ANICOM
PLEAT RENEWAL OF THE ACROPOLIS,
TAKING DOWN THE BUILDING BLOCK
BY BLOCK, CLEANING, LASER
SCANNING, LOOKING AT EVERY ANGLE
OF THE BLOCK AND PUTTING THEM
BACK UP AGAIN.
SO THIS HAS GIVEN US AN ENORMOUS
AMOUNT OF NEW INFORMATION ABOUT
HOW THE BUILDING WAS BUILT.
SECONDLY WE HOUSE THE NEW
PAPYRUS THAT I SET NORTH THIS
BOOK, THAT IS A LORS PLAY BY
EURIPIDES WHICH WAS KNOWN BUT
FOR WHICH WE HAD VERY FEW LINES
UNTIL THE 1960s WHEN A MUMMY IN
PARIS THAT HAD BEEN EXCAVATED IN
EGYPT IN 1901 FINALLY --.
>> Brown: IT'S QUITE A DETECTIVE
STORY, ACTUALLY.
>> IT IS A REAL DETECTIVE STORY.
BUILDING ON ONE DISCOVERY, THE
DISCOVERY OF AN ARCHAEOLOGIST IN
1901 AND THE BREAK THROUGH IN
THE 1960s OF HOW TO PEEL THE
LAYERS OF PAPYRUS OFF OF THE
MUMMY, THAT IS THE HARD PAPIER
MACHE CASING.
THIS YEAR THIS TEXT TELLS US THE
STORY OF THE FIRST KING OF
ATHENS AND HIS FAMILY.
>> Brown: THERE'S AN ONGOING
DEBATE ABOUT WHETHER THE SCULPT
NURSE THE BRITISH MUSEUM AND
ELSEWHERE SHOULD BE RETURNED TO
ATHENS WHERE THERE'S BEEN A NEW
MUSEUM BUILT FOR THEM.
YOU THINK THEY SHOULD BE.
WHY IS THAT IMPORTANT?
>> THE PARTHENON SCULPTURES WERE
NOT MADE AS STAND ALONE OBJECTS.
THEY WERE MADE AS PART OF A
BUILDING, A BUILDING THAT STILL
STANDS IN THE MIDDLE OF ATHENS
TODAY.
THEY REFLECT A PEOPLE, THEY
REFLECT AN ANCIENT HISTORY, THEY
REFLECT A RELIGION THAT CAN ONLY
BE UNDERSTOOD WHEN PUT TOGETHER
AS A COHERENT WHOLE.
THERE IS A NARRATIVE.
THERE IT IS A STORY.
THE STORY TO BE UNDERSTOOD
DEEPLY AND COMPLETELY MUST BE
BROUGHT TOGETHER AGAIN.
>> Brown: THE NEW BOOK IS "THE
PARTHENON ENIGMA."
JOAN CONNELLY, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY: SENATE
REPUBLICANS AGAIN BLOCKED A BID
BY DEMOCRATS TO RESTORE BENEFITS
FOR THE LONG-TERM UNEMPLOYED,
COMPETITION BEGAN IN SKIING,
SKATING AND SNOWBOARD EVENTS AT
THE WINTER OLYMPICS IN SOCHI,
RUSSIA-- ONE DAY BEFORE THE
OPENING CEREMONIES.
AND WALL STREET REBOUNDED FROM
LOSSES EARLIER THIS WEEK.
THE DOW INDUSTRIALS GAINED 188
POINTS.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE RIGHT NOW, REVELATIONS
MADE BY FORMER N.S.A CONTRACTOR
EDWARD SNOWN HADEVE GIVEN
REPORTERS A LOT TO CHEW ON THE
PAST SEVERAL MONTHS.
BUT THERE ARE TRADEOFFS BETWEEN
INFORMING THE PUBLIC AND
JEOPARDIZING CRITICAL
INTELLIGENCE CAPABILITIES.
OUR CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
SAT DOWN WITH TWO JOURNALISTS
FROM THE GERMAN MAGAZINE "DER
SPIEGEL" TO GET THEIR TAKE ON
COVERING THE INTERNATIONAL SPY
SCANDAL THAT HAS LEAD A LOT OF
AMERICANS TO RE-THINK THE FINE
LINE BETWEEN PRIVACY AND
SECURITY.
READ HER BLOG ON OUR WORLD PAGE.
AND STEPHEN HAWKING HAD HIS
FELLOW PHYSICISTS SCRATCHING
THEIR HEADS WHEN HE DECLARED
LAST WEEK THAT THERE ARE NO
BLACK HOLES.
OUR SCIENCE TEAM EXPLAINS WHAT
HE MEANS BY THAT ON OUR
HOMEPAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON FRIDAY, WE BREAK DOWN
THE LATEST JOBS NUMBERS AND TALK
WITH THE AUTHOR OF THE BOOK
BEHIND THE NEW FILM, "THE
MONUMENTS MEN".
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS, AMONG
OTHERS.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.